

   
Commonly, a map projection is a systematic transformation of the latitudes and longitudes of locations on the surface of a sphere or an ellipsoid into locations on a plane.[1] Map projections are necessary for creating maps. All map projections distort the surface in some fashion. Depending on the purpose of the map, some distortions are acceptable and others are not; therefore, different map projections exist in order to preserve some properties of the sphere-like body at the expense of other properties. There is no limit to the number of possible map projections.[2]:1

More generally, the surfaces of planetary bodies can be mapped even if they are too irregular to be modeled well with a sphere or ellipsoid; see below. Even more generally, projections are the subject of several pure mathematical fields, including differential geometry and projective geometry. However, "map projection" refers specifically to a cartographic projection.

Retreived: Fri Oct 21 16:58:33 BST 2016
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map_projection
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Map_projection&oldid=745105538


	Mollweide
==================================================



	Hammer
================================================== 
The Hammer projection is an equal-area map projection described by
Ernst Hammer in 1892. Using the same 2:1 elliptical outer shape as the
Mollweide projection, Hammer intended to reduce distortion toward the
outer meridians, where it is extreme in the Mollweide.

Directly inspired by the Aitoff projection, Hammer suggested the use
of the equatorial form of the Lambert azimuthal equal-area projection
instead of Aitoff's use of the azimuthal equidistant projection:


Retreived: Fri Oct 21 16:59:07 BST 2016
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hammer_projection




http://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/coordinates/skycoord.html
================================================== 
Suggestion from Meredith Rawls (Many thanks!!! ;-)
https://twitter.com/merrdiff/status/862704926518124544
And of course Jim Geach::
https://twitter.com/jgeach/status/862714130452578305



Notes from Maciej
==================================================
For the maps - as I'm a Topcat/Stilts fan and a Healpix user, what I
do is to first export the catalogue (with Topcat or Stilts) into a
simple two-column ascii list of coordinates for all the sources. Then
I pixelise the ascii catalogue using Healpy with some reasonable NSide
(for maps I think 512 or even less was enough) and save the result not
only as a fits map but also as a text file. This text file, which by
then is megabytes rather than gigabytes as the input catalogue was, I
then import into Topcat and plot a sky map from there using pixel
counts as map values (rescaled by pixel area if I want to have
counts/deg2). The map needs some tweaking in Topcat to look nice
(colour scale, dot sizes and shapes etc.) but Topcat is flexible
enough to usually provide the desired output. Then it's enough to
export to pdf, which is of publishable quality in the latest Topcat
versions (pngs are also good; but eps are usually very large).

In the meantime however Topcat's Mark Taylor added a functionality to
directly deal with Healpix maps (in fits I believe), but I haven't
explored that so far.

So, the code itself is only for the pixelisation; the rest is done
pretty much manually (but could be automatised in Stilts, and all
could be joined into some bash script). If you're interested in the
pixelisation code (python), which is efficient enough that it should
work even on (modern) laptops, then I can pass it to you. But it's
nothing sophisticated really :)



map projections mollweide vs hammer

http://forums.xkcd.com/viewtopic.php?t=109793